README.md, before:

# Welcome!

Welcome to HFC’s Tech Academy!  Though we’re excited to have you, there’s some things you should read over to get an accurate picture of the coolest six weeks of your life.

# Pair Programming

**Pair**. n. Two people who are related in some way or who do something together.  
**Programming**. n. The act or job of creating computer programs.

Pair programming is all about programming with someone else.  The main philosophy is that two sets of eyes reduce the overall error rate, increase the speed of development, and increase the rate of learning for both participants.  

Typical solo programming involves two major tasks: coming up with ideas which will be converted into code, and entering that code to be run as a program.  

Pair programming assigns each of these tasks to two people:  

1.  The *navigator* decides the direction the program is currently taking.  Typically this will involve with coming up with functions, classes, algorithms, and so on.  One caveat is that the navigator is not typically allowed to scrap the work of the previous navigator to accomplish their goals.  
    
    Students learning to program this way will often, as navigator, be dictating the code to be typed exactly, or nearly exactly.  Choices they make should generally be adhered to by the driver.

2.  The *driver* is at the wheel, or keyboard.  The driver’s main responsibility is to transcribe the code that the navigator is coming up with.  

    A secondary responsibility of the driver is to keep the navigator in check.  If it’s clear that the navigator is forgetting something important that will prevent the current code from running, it’s the driver’s job to mention it.  Discussion is fine, but the driver shouldn’t be actively coding.  That’s the navigator’s job.  

Over time, as you become more comfortable with coding, the navigator will be less about providing explicit code, and will provide instructions like “iterate over the array” trusting that the driver can write that code block without help.  

There are two things that can go wrong with pairing:  

1. A passive driver is one who, despite having qualms with or not understanding the navigator, does not speak up and blindly moves forward.  If this is your driving technique then often you will be not only left behind, but less likely to contribute as the navigator.

2. An aggressive navigator is one who typically pushes forward without concern for the driver’s experience.  An aggressive navigator has ideas, their ideas are right even if they don’t sync up with the the work done by the driver previously.  The program at the end will be the program that they have written, not the program that the pair has written.

# Code of Conduct

Our main rule is the golden one: treat others the way you’d wish to be treated.  

1.  Everyone coming to our school has their own particular background and skill set.  It’ll probably be somewhat different from yours.  Under no circumstances should you use a person’s skill or lack thereof to make a point against them.

    “Well I can’t believe you don’t know about feature X that almost made it into Ruby 1.8.7.” or “Well you already know about thing Y in CSS 3, why are you even here?”  Saying things like these make you look like a jerk and also reduce the overall experience for everyone else who is here.

    However, it’s totally cool to say “Hey, I heard Amy knows how to make a modal, maybe he can show us how during lunch today.”  That’s just being awesome all around.

2.  Everyone here deserves to be heard.  If someone is speaking, no matter how important the thing you’re going to say next actually is, you wait until they’re finished.  This should probably include listening, which means that you should also stop obsessing about your very clever thing long enough to hear their words.  You look doubly silly when your next sentence has nothing to do with what they just finished saying.

3.  There are men and women in this world.  Don’t be surprised by the presence of either, and don’t use locker-room talk in the classroom.  Save it for when you’re home and so very very alone.  Nobody wants to hear it.  Period. 

    Extend this advice to people of all protected statuses, like race, religion, sexual preference, etc.  You’re entering the big bad world here, and nothing screams low-class like explaining how you got fired for harassment over Thanksgiving dinner.

# Class Expectations

You’re here to learn.  Learning takes time.  We’re going to try to prepare you to understand many things, the most important of which is being able to continue learning and solving problems long after you leave us.

To that end we expect you to be present for each and every class, and to be present while you’re here.  No checking your phone except during breaks and lunch.  No playing on the internet.  While you’re here, the internet is for github, apis, stackoverflow, and similar things.  Respect the time you are spending with your partner by working on the class work during class time.

# Anticipated Workload

In addition to attending each and every class from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. you will have homework each and every night, and each and every weekend until the class is over.  You will be given more than enough work to keep you busy nearly every waking moment.  

Homework will look similar to this:

1. Finish any unfinished work from the class. (0 - 2 hours)
2. Read a set of documents. (1 - 2 hours)
3. Do some homework, primarily involving some coding. (1 - 2 hours)
4. Write a blog post reflecting on what you’ve learned for the day. (30 minutes)
5. Submit everything to the tracker. (15 minutes)
6. (optionally) Record a screencast explaining an interesting topic. (lots of time)

Weekend will tack on the very important:

7. Do a tutorial on a particular topic (8 - 12 hours)

There will be a good 3 to 6 hours of work to do each night, especially depending on your ability to complete work during the day.  Falling behind is not an option, since everything builds on everything else.  Most readings and homework will prepare you for the next day’s pair programming so is it important to you, and also to your partner, to keep up.

Every day you will blog about your experience for the day.  An important way to solidify ideas is to explain them to someone else.  Here’s your chance!  Doing so provides the additional bonus of working on your technical writing skills.  Your future boss will thank you.

The weekend homework will dive you deeply into the topics that we’re covering.  Mostly they’ll have you build a project, for example a blog using Rails.  They’re important because they will solidify your understanding while giving you a look at the greater context.

# That’s It!

Once again, welcome to the program!  Soon you’ll receive instructions on what to do next while you wait for day 1, but for now you should bask in the glow of knowing that you impressed us, and soon you’ll impress the world.


Matthew, Aaron, and everyone at HFC Tech Academy

Commit message:

Adds prep-work and curriculum sections to main

README.md, after:

# Welcome!

Welcome to HFC’s Tech Academy!  Though we’re excited to have you, there’s some things you should read over to get an accurate picture of the coolest six weeks of your life.

# Pair Programming

**Pair**. n. Two people who are related in some way or who do something together.  
**Programming**. n. The act or job of creating computer programs.

Pair programming is all about programming with someone else.  The main philosophy is that two sets of eyes reduce the overall error rate, increase the speed of development, and increase the rate of learning for both participants.  

Typical solo programming involves two major tasks: coming up with ideas which will be converted into code, and entering that code to be run as a program.  

Pair programming assigns each of these tasks to two people:  

1.  The *navigator* decides the direction the program is currently taking.  Typically this will involve with coming up with functions, classes, algorithms, and so on.  One caveat is that the navigator is not typically allowed to scrap the work of the previous navigator to accomplish their goals.  
    
    Students learning to program this way will often, as navigator, be dictating the code to be typed exactly, or nearly exactly.  Choices they make should generally be adhered to by the driver.

2.  The *driver* is at the wheel, or keyboard.  The driver’s main responsibility is to transcribe the code that the navigator is coming up with.  

    A secondary responsibility of the driver is to keep the navigator in check.  If it’s clear that the navigator is forgetting something important that will prevent the current code from running, it’s the driver’s job to mention it.  Discussion is fine, but the driver shouldn’t be actively coding.  That’s the navigator’s job.  

Over time, as you become more comfortable with coding, the navigator will be less about providing explicit code, and will provide instructions like “iterate over the array” trusting that the driver can write that code block without help.  

There are two things that can go wrong with pairing:  

1. A passive driver is one who, despite having qualms with or not understanding the navigator, does not speak up and blindly moves forward.  If this is your driving technique then often you will be not only left behind, but less likely to contribute as the navigator.

2. An aggressive navigator is one who typically pushes forward without concern for the driver’s experience.  An aggressive navigator has ideas, their ideas are right even if they don’t sync up with the the work done by the driver previously.  The program at the end will be the program that they have written, not the program that the pair has written.

# Code of Conduct

Our main rule is the golden one: treat others the way you’d wish to be treated.  

1.  Everyone coming to our school has their own particular background and skill set.  It’ll probably be somewhat different from yours.  Under no circumstances should you use a person’s skill or lack thereof to make a point against them.

    “Well I can’t believe you don’t know about feature X that almost made it into Ruby 1.8.7.” or “Well you already know about thing Y in CSS 3, why are you even here?”  Saying things like these make you look like a jerk and also reduce the overall experience for everyone else who is here.

    However, it’s totally cool to say “Hey, I heard Amy knows how to make a modal, maybe he can show us how during lunch today.”  That’s just being awesome all around.

2.  Everyone here deserves to be heard.  If someone is speaking, no matter how important the thing you’re going to say next actually is, you wait until they’re finished.  This should probably include listening, which means that you should also stop obsessing about your very clever thing long enough to hear their words.  You look doubly silly when your next sentence has nothing to do with what they just finished saying.

3.  There are men and women in this world.  Don’t be surprised by the presence of either, and don’t use locker-room talk in the classroom.  Save it for when you’re home and so very very alone.  Nobody wants to hear it.  Period. 

    Extend this advice to people of all protected statuses, like race, religion, sexual preference, etc.  You’re entering the big bad world here, and nothing screams low-class like explaining how you got fired for harassment over Thanksgiving dinner.

# Class Expectations

You’re here to learn.  Learning takes time.  We’re going to try to prepare you to understand many things, the most important of which is being able to continue learning and solving problems long after you leave us.

To that end we expect you to be present for each and every class, and to be present while you’re here.  No checking your phone except during breaks and lunch.  No playing on the internet.  While you’re here, the internet is for github, apis, stackoverflow, and similar things.  Respect the time you are spending with your partner by working on the class work during class time.

# Anticipated Workload

In addition to attending each and every class from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m. you will have homework each and every night, and each and every weekend until the class is over.  You will be given more than enough work to keep you busy nearly every waking moment.  

Homework will look similar to this:

1. Finish any unfinished work from the class. (0 - 2 hours)
2. Read a set of documents. (1 - 2 hours)
3. Do some homework, primarily involving some coding. (1 - 2 hours)
4. Write a blog post reflecting on what you’ve learned for the day. (30 minutes)
5. Submit everything to the tracker. (15 minutes)
6. (optionally) Record a screencast explaining an interesting topic. (lots of time)

Weekend will tack on the very important:

7. Do a tutorial on a particular topic (8 - 12 hours)

There will be a good 3 to 6 hours of work to do each night, especially depending on your ability to complete work during the day.  Falling behind is not an option, since everything builds on everything else.  Most readings and homework will prepare you for the next day’s pair programming so is it important to you, and also to your partner, to keep up.

Every day you will blog about your experience for the day.  An important way to solidify ideas is to explain them to someone else.  Here’s your chance!  Doing so provides the additional bonus of working on your technical writing skills.  Your future boss will thank you.

The weekend homework will dive you deeply into the topics that we’re covering.  Mostly they’ll have you build a project, for example a blog using Rails.  They’re important because they will solidify your understanding while giving you a look at the greater context.

# Curriculum

Our curriculum is structred to get you up and running quickly while constantly getting practice creating real life applications.  Before you show up, make sure you look over what you'll be doing at our [Curriculum](https://github.com/hfc-tech-academy/short_stack/curriculum) page.

# Prep-work

In order for the class to be working well together, we want to make sure everyone is speaking roughly the same language from Day One.  Please head over to [Prep Work](https://github.com/hfc-tech-academy/short_stack/tree/master/prep_work) and enjoy flexing your brain.



# That’s It!

Once again, welcome to the program!  Soon you’ll receive instructions on what to do next while you wait for day 1, but for now you should bask in the glow of knowing that you impressed us, and soon you’ll impress the world.


Matthew, Aaron, and everyone at HFC Tech Academy
